
                   FUNDAMENTALS OF RADIOTELEPHONE PROCEDURE

GENERAL:  Radiotelephone procedure is designed to speed up the transmission of 
messages and reduce the number of errors by using a clearly understood and 
uniform method of handling radio transmissions under all operating conditions.
        1. Messages should be clear, complete, and as short as possible. 
Writing messages out before transmitting them helps to accomplish this 
objective.
        2. Speak clearly, slowly, and in natural phrases. If receiving 
operators must copy, allow enough time  for them to do so.
        3. Listen before transmitting to avoid interfering with other 
transmissions.
        4. Always assume the  ENEMY IS LISTENING

PHONETIC ALPHABET
  To help identify spoken letters of the alphabet, a set of easily understood 
words has been developed. BRAVO for example, is the word used for the Letter 
B, and DELTA is the word used for the letter D. BRAVO and DELTA are less 
likely to be confused in a radiotelephone conversation than the letters B and 
D. All radio operators must know and use the same phonetic alphabet.
  Over the years many phonetic alphabets have been adopted. The ICAO 
(International Civil Aeronautics Organization) Alphabet, shown here, has been 
adopted by NATO and is used by the military, aeronautic, marine, and amateur 
radio services throughout the world. Learn it. Use it. It's the only way to 
go! 


         ICAO Phonetic Alphabet

   Alpha      AL fah
   Bravo      BRAH voh
   Charlie    CHAR lee (SHAR lee)
   Delta      DELL tah
   Echo       ECK oh
   Foxtrot    FOKS trot
   Golf       GOLF
   Hotel      hoh TELL
   India      IN dee ah
   Juliett    JEW lee ett
   Kilo       KEY loh
   Lima       LEE mah
   Mike       MIKE
   November   no VEM ber
   Oscar      OSS cah
   Papa       pah PAH
   Quebec     keh BECK
   Romeo      ROW me oh
   Sierra     see AIR rah
   Tango      TANG go
   Uniform    YOU nee form (OO nee form)
   Victor     VIK tah
   Wiskey     WISS key
   Xray       ECKS ray
   Yankee     YANG key
   Zulu       ZOO loo
   Note: Capitalized syllables carry the accent. 

  Difficult or easily misunderstood words within a message may be spelled out 
using the phonetic alphabet. Before spelling the word, you must use the 
proword "I SPELL". If the operator can pronounce the word that he is going to 
spell, he will do so before and after he spells the word to help identify the 
word.
        Example A: the word zloty cannot be pronounced by the operator.
        -I SPELL - ZULU-LIMA-OSCAR-TANGO-YANKEE.(I know that the letter is 
         not really LIMA -  but you know that's military intelegence )
        Example B: The word catenary can be pronounced by the operator.
        -CATENARY-I SPELL- CHARLIE-ALPHA-TANGO-ECHO-NOVEMBER-ALPHA-ROMEO- 
         YANKEE-CATENARY
  When a message is encoded using the Tactical Operations Code the three 
letter code groups are to be transmitted using the phonetic alphabet without 
the proword I SPELL.
        Example: The coded groups LUX, KHE - will be spoken as - LIMA-UNIFORM-
        XRAY. KILO-HOTEL-ECHO ...
Abbreviations in the text are transmitted as follows:
 1. Initials used alone or with short titles such as APC (Armored Personnel 
Carrier), shall be spoken phonetically.
        Example: "APC" shall be spoken as "ALPHA-PAPA-CHARLIE".
        "Paragraph A" shall be spoken as " Paragraph ALPHA".
 2. Personal initials shall be spoken phonetically after sending the proword 
"INITIALS".
        Example: "G.M.Smith" shall be spoken as "INITIALS-GOLF-MIKE-SMITH"
 3. Abbreviations used in normal speech may be used in the same manner when 
transmitted by voice.
        Example: FEBA, RATELO, RECON, ASAP
 4. Punctuation shall be spoken as follows:
        Comma   ,           COMMA
        Period  .           FULL STOP or PERIOD
        Parenthesis ()      PAREN/UNPAREN or OPEN BRACKETS/CLOSE BRACKETS
        Oblique stroke /    SLANT
        Quotation Marks " " QUOTE/UNQUOTE
        Hyphen  -           HYPHEN
        Colon  :            COLON
        Semicolon ;         SEMICOLON
        Dash --             DASH


PRONOUNCING NUMBERS
 When numerals are transmitted by radiotelephone, the following rules will be 
used
        Numeral         Spoken as

        0               ZE ro   
        1               WUN  
        2               TOO 
        3               TREE  
        4               FOW er 
        5               FIFE 
        6               SIX 
        7               SEV en   
        8               AIT 
        9               NIN er  
  Numbers will be transmitted digit by digit. For example the number 519 would 
be transmitted as "FIFE-WUN-NINER" not as " FIVE HUNDRED NINTEEN". Multiples 
of thousands may be spoken as such. For example, 6,000 can be transmitted as 
"SIX-THOUSAND" instead of "SIX-ZERO-ZERO-ZERO". However, there are special 
cases, such as identifying a code group in a coded message, when the normal 
pronunciation of numerals is required; for example, identifying the 17th group 
in a message would be pronounced as "SEVENTEEN". To identify this group as 
"ONE-SEVEN" could be confused with the first and seventh coded groups of the 
same message.
  Examples:
        Numeral         Spoken as
        44              FOWer FOWer
        90              NINer ZERO
        136             WUN TREE SIX
        500             FIFE ZERO ZERO
        1200            WUN TOO ZERO ZERO
        1478            WUN FOWer SEVen AIT
        7000            SEVen TOU-SAND
        16000           WUN SIX TOU-SAND
        812681          AIT WUN TOO SIX AIT WUN


 PROWORDS. Procedure words are used to convey a common meaning. They are used 
in regular communication between radio operators to shorten transmissions. Use 
of unauthorized prowords is stupid, unnecessary, dangerous (and forbidden by 
the U.S.Army). 


 PROWORD                      EXPLANATION

ALL AFTER          The remaining part of the message which follows 
                   the word _______.
 
ALL BEFORE         The part of the message that comes before 
                   the word________.
 
AUTHENTICATE       The station is to reply to the challenge which 
                   follows: 

AUTHENTICATION IS  The authentication on this message is _______. 

BREAK              This separates one part of a message from the next. 

CORRECT            You are correct, or what you have transmitted is correct. 

CORRECTION         An error was made in transmission, what follows is the 
                   correct version(starting with the last word that was
                   transmitted correctly).

                   That which follows is a correction to the message in 
                   answer to you request for verification.

DISREGARD THIS     This transmission is in error, Disregard it.
TRANSMISSION-OUT   This proword shall not be used to cancel any message that 
                   has been completely transmitted and for which receipt or 
                   acknowledgement has been received. 

DO NOT ANSWER      Stations called are not to answer this call. When this 
                   proword is employed the transmission shall be ended with 
                   "OUT". 

EXEMPT             The stations following are not required to monitor 
                   this transmission.

FIGURES            Numerals or numbers follow.

FLASH              Precedence FLASH. Reserved for SHORT reports of initial 
                   enemy contact and emergency situations of vital 
                   proportion. Handling is as fast as humanly possible with 
                   an objective time of 10 minutes or less. 

FROM               The originator of this message is as follows:

GROUPS             The message contains coded groups, the number of which
                   follows:

I AUTHENTICATE     The transmission that follows is the reply to your
                   challenge to authenticate.

INFO               The stations that follow are addressed for information.

I SAY AGAIN        I am repeating the transmission or portion requested.

I SPELL            I shall spell the next word phonetically.

I VERIFY           That which follows has been verified at your request
                   and is repeated.(Use only as reply to VERIFY).

MESSAGE            A message that you are required to write down follows.

MORE TO FOLLOW     Transmitting station has additional traffic for the 
                   receiving station.

OUT                This is the end of my transmission and no answer is
                   required or expected.(Since OVER and OUT have opposite 
                   meanings they are never used together)

OVER               This is the end of my transmission and a response is 
                   necessary. (Go ahead; transmit)

PRIORITY           Precedence PRIORITY. Reserved for important messages which 
                   must have precedence over routine traffic. This is the 
                   highest precedence which normally may be assigned to a 
                   message of administrative nature. 

RADIO CHECK        How well can you hear and understand my transmission.

READ BACK          Repeat this entire transmission back to me exactly as 
                   received.

RELAY (TO)         Transmit this message to all addressees. The address 
                   component is mandatory when this proword is used.

ROGER              I have received your last transmission satisfactorily.

SAY AGAIN          Repeat all or (ALL BEFORE___ or ALL AFTER___) of your last 
                   transmission.

SERVICE            The message that follows is a SERVICE message.
 
SILENCE            Cease transmission on this net immediately.(repeat 3 or
                   more times)  The station imposing must authenticate.

SILENCE LIFTED     Silence is lifted. Authentication is also required. 

SPEAK SLOWER       Your transmission is at too fast a speed.

THIS IS            This transmission is from _____.

TIME               That which immediately follows is the time or date-time 
                   group of the message.

TO                 The addressees immediately following are addressed for 
                   action.

UNKNOWN STATION    The identity of the station with whom I am attempting to 
                   establish communication is unknown.

VERIFY             Verify the entire message(or portion) with the originator
                   and send correct version.(to be used only by addressee)

WAIT               I must pause for a few seconds.

WAIT-OUT           I must pause longer than a few seconds. (others may 
                   transmit on this frequency)

WILCO              I have received your signal, understand it and will comply. 
                   To be used only by the addressee. Since the meaning of 
                   ROGER is included in that of WILCO the two prowords are 
                   *NEVER* used together. 

WORD AFTER         The word in the message to which I have reference is that 
                   which follows ___________________.

WORDS TWICE        Communication is difficult. Transmit (or I am transmitting) 
                   each phrase ( or each code group) twice. This proword may 
                   be used as an order, request or as information. 

WRONG              Your last transmission was incorrect. The correct version 
                   is ____________________.

                          ORGANIZATION OF A RADIO NET

        A radio net is composed of two or more stations operating on the same 
frequency. The type of net depends upon tactical grouping of units within a 
command. Callsigns and frequencies assigned to a radio net are found in the 
unit CEOI.  The identifying call sign must never be linked to the actual unit 
designation. Each call sign (U.S.Army) consists of letter-number-letter and 
may be followed by a numerical suffix. Any number of individual call signs may 
be grouped together under one net. The net call sign will be the Net Control 
Station (NCS)'s call sign minus any numerical suffix.
        Strict disipline is necessary for the efficient functioning of radio 
nets. In order to establish control and maintain discipline in a net, a NET 
CONTROL STATION (NCS) is designated. The NCS has full authority in matters of 
technical control, but none over organization or tactical employment of any 
station. The duties of the NCS are:
        1. Proper frequency adjustment of all stations in the net.
        2. Transmission control.
        3. The clearing (movement) of traffic within the net.
        4. The dispatching of internet (incoming/outgoing) traffic.
        5. Maintenance of order within the net.
     Questions concerning the operation of the net are referred to the NCS for 
decision. Within its scope of technical control, the authority of the NCS is 
absolute, its decisions are final, and its orders are strictly complied with.
Other stations in the net are known as subordinate stations. NCS is normally 
located within the highest headquarters the net serves, unless another station 
is so designated. One other station should be designated alternate NCS.


 (*)


  Users of radio transmitters must be aware that every time they key the 
transmitter they give away valuable information to the enemy: a) That they 
exist and b) Where they are (electronic transmissions can be traced almost 
instantly). In addition inflections in voice and adherence to procedures give 
a clue as to ability and training. The frequency, timing and length of 
transmissions also give valuable clues to enemy actions and intentions. 
 Therefore: use radio only if more secure means are unavailable and strictly  
adhere to procedures. Practice Radio Silence. 

NUMERAL AUTHENTICATION/CIPHER SYSTEM

 General. The numeral authentication/cipher  system is used to encrypt numbers 
and grid zone designators, for authentication and to encrypt short messages 
using the brevity list. Authentication/cipher tables should be changed every 
12 hours (or when suspected to be compromized) 


       Sample Authentication/Cipher Table - FOR TRAINING USE ONLY

                     Authentication/Cipher Table        
                         SERIAL NO. 123461 
            
                    0   1   2  3  4   5  6  7  8  9     
                                        
                A HQDS ZGK UCX FB VM PNI EL YJ RO WT    
                B LSWT ZPH UGJ VN KI ECX AD QO RM YF    
                C PVRJ YNK FDE BA OG UTZ IW QL XS HM    
                D YBXI QCM WEO GT JH ALZ SK UV PF NR    
                E KHLV YOC QNZ FX UP MSR AT BJ ID WG    
                F TKIH ZBL SOV UA QG XMW EN YP CR JD    
                G SMDZ NHT QKB YA IF UVW OL RP JC EX    
                H SQTM LKV PWC FI UX NGR YZ AD BJ EO    
                I AGWD XZY TUL CP KF BQM HO NR ES VJ    
                J HULI PNY ETV ZX GF QOM WD CA SB RK    
                K OBCW SLJ GFZ IE VX DMR NU TQ HY PA    
                L FVWH KZB AXT PC EJ GOR SU MN YD IQ    
                M EFDU BNW YPL CI QT KZO HS RV GA JX    
                N CMJK TZV XFW BI LQ SER GU OY AH DP    
                O CUQA GJM FBR NZ KE IWX HP DY LS TV    
                P BTMH DVK JLA FG XR ENU OZ CQ YW IS    
                Q XBFH OYS ELW IN GK VMJ CR PA UZ TD    
                R YWKO SGN TLB HP FC MUQ DV EX IZ AJ    
                S WXGO LMY RHV JE KD UZT PN IC QA BF    
                T SXHC KOB LFP DZ IN JYU QG AM VW ER    
                U ZXTW AFJ BRP OD SH LEG MC QV NY IK    
                V HTJD ZQF SKX LP OI WEC BG RY AU NM    
                W XSUM LBQ HYF AT VD IKN CJ GZ PO ER    
                X ICUR SOV FPL NB AY MDQ ZK TW HE GJ    
                Y SUEH BIW XLD ZG KF CPM VQ RA TN JO    
                Z JDGH QNK OUY PF IB VAL WM XS TC ER    
                ^Set Letter                             
                A BCDE FGH IJK LM NO PQR ST UV WX YZ    
                          Readers guide                     


AUTHENTICATION INSTRUCTIONS
          When to use authentication:
  When directing radio silence, listening silence, or requiring a station to 
    break an imposed silence.
  When transmitting contact reports in plain language.
  When transmitting operating instructions that affect the military situation; 
  e.g. : closing down a station or watch, changing frequency other than normal 
  scheduled changes, directing establishment of a special communications guard, 
  requesting artillery fire support, directing relocation of units, etc.
  When transmitting a plain language cancellation.
     How to use Authentication/cipher table for authentication:
  Challenge and reply authentication:
        When authentication is required or desired the CALLED party should 
challenge first. After giving the appropriate reply, the calling party will 
then counter-challenge.
  a) To form a challenge, select two letters at random. 
          Note: To avoid a pattern of using the same letters over again it is 
          recommended that a line of the Authentication/Cipher table be 
          selected and the first two letters be used on the first challenge, 
          the next two for the next challenge, etc.. Underline each pair as 
          they are used so they will not be used again. 
  b) To determine the reply, find the first letter of the challenge in the 
 "Set Letter" (first) column. Find the second letter in the line indicated by 
the first letter. The reply is the cipher letter directly BELOW the second 
letter of the challenge. (Note: if the first letter of the challenge is "Z" 
the reply should be taken from the "A" line of the table) 

   Transmission Authentication:
When transmitting in the blind(contact has not been established or lifting 
radio silence), the calling station shall choose the next two available random 
letters to make a challenge and reply. The letters should be selected from the 
Authentication/Cipher table as noted above so they will not be used again in 
the current time period. 
 Example: UNIFORM FOUR INDIA - THIS IS FOUR INDIA SEVEN - SILENCE LIFTED -
 SILENCE LIFTED - AUTHENTICATION IS - NOVEMBER SIERRA INDIA


                      TACTICAL OPERATIONS CODES (OPCODE) 

   Operations codes provide a means of encrypting longer and more varied 
messages than the brevity list. Opcode consists of three letter groups used 
to encode letters, words, and short phrases. The U.S.Army includes two lists 
in each CEOI, an encode list in alphabetical order by plain text and a decode 
list in alphabetical order by cipher group. (CEO note: OPCODE.EXE will 
generate these lists) Since the maintenance and distribution of two lists may 
be difficult for small units, an alternative is to use a single numbered list 
and encode the numbers using the Authentication/cipher table. The use of 
opcode should be avoided where ever possible by using secure communications 
channels (machine encryption, spread spectrum, messengers, etc) and by keeping 
the brevity list up to date with the most needed messages(CEO note: edit 
"horiz.txt"). 
   When using opcode one should keep the message short. The message should 
be broken down into lines of no more than 6 code groups. For maximum 
security when using the single (numbered) list, each line should be reset 
using a new I SET combination. However, to make the messages sound like U.S. 
Army, omit the reset, and use the authentication to set the line in the 
Authentication/Cipher Table. The actual letter used to encrypt a number should 
not be repeated (if possible) within a line. 

     
         Sample Opcode Table             Page   1
     
     
     000 a                   055 apc                 110 boat-s              
     001 abdomen             056 apply               111 bomb-d-r-ng-s       
     002 able/ability        057 approach-ed-s       112 bombardment         
     003 abort-s-ed-ing      058 approach-ing        113 booby trap          
     004 above               059 approve-al-d-ing    114 boundary-ies        
     005 abrasion            060 approximate-ly      115 breach              
     006 accident-al-s       061 are/is              116 break/broken        
     007 accomplish-ed       062 area-s              117 breast              
     008 accomplishing       063 arm-s-ed            118 bridge-d-ing-s      
     009 acknowledge-d-ment  064 armor-ed            119 brigade             
     010 act as relay        065 army-ies            120 brush pile          
     011 act-ion-ing-s       066 around              121 building-s          
     012 act-ive-ivity-s     067 arrange-d-ing       122 bulldozer           
     013 add-ed-itional      068 arrange-ment        123 bunker-s            
     014 add-ing-s           069 arrive-al-d-ing     124 burst-ing-s         
     015 adjacent            070 artillery           125 by                  
     016 administration      071 asap                126 bypass-d-ing-s      
     017 administrative      072 assault             127 c                   
     018 admit               073 assemble-d-ing      128 cable-s             
     019 advance-d-ing       074 assist-ance         129 caliber             
     020 advisor-s           075 assist-ed-ing       130 call                
     021 affirmative         076 at (once)           131 camouflage-d        
     022 age                 077 attach-ed-ing       132 camouflage-ing      
     023 agent-s             078 attach-ment         133 camp                
     024 aid (sta/man)       079 attack-ed-ng-s      134 canal-s             
     025 air (fld/port)      080 authorization       135 cancel-led-s        
     026 air evacuation      081 authorize-d-ng      136 cancel-ling-s       
     027 air force           082 available           137 cannon              
     028 air liaison officer 083 aviator/pilot       138 capable-itiy        
     029 air strike          084 axis (of)           139 capacity-ies        
     030 airborne            085 azimuth (of)        140 capsule             
     031 aircraft            086 b                   141 capture-d-ing       
     032 airdrop-s           087 back-ed-ing         142 carry-ied-iers      
     033 airhead             088 bad                 143 casualty-ies        
     034 airmoble            089 barbed wire         144 cavalry             
     035 ak-47               090 barrage-s           145 CBR                 
     036 al                  091 barrier             146 cease-s-d-ing       
     037 alert-ed-ing        092 base-d-s-ing        147 challenge-d-ing     
     038 alive               093 battalion-s         148 change-d-s-ing      
     039 all                 094 battery-ies         149 charge-d-s          
     040 all cdrs rept       095 battle-s            150 check-d-ing-s       
     041 all s3's rept       096 be-en-ing           151 chemical-s          
     042 alley               097 beach-ed-s-ing      152 chief of staff(s)   
     043 alt CP in comd      098 before              153 child/children      
     044 alt supply pt       099 below               154 civilian-s          
     045 alternate           100 between             155 clarification(of)   
     046 alternate CP        101 beyond              156 class-ify           
     047 am in pos (to)      102 bike                157 classification      
     048 ambulance           103 bivouac-ed-ing      158 clear-ed-ance       
     049 ambush-ed-ing       104 black               159 clearing-s          
     050 ammunition          105 bleed               160 close-d-ing         
     051 amphibious          106 block-ed-ing        161 coast-s-al          
     052 amputate            107 blow-ew-own         162 collapse            
     053 answer-d-ing-s      108 blow-ing (up)       163 collect-ed-ion      
     054 anti-               109 blue                164 collect-ing-s       

     
         Sample Opcode Table             Page   2
     
     
     165 column-s            220 damage-d-ing        275 during              
     166 combat              221 danger              276 e                   
     167 come-ing            222 darkness            277 east-ern (of)       
     168 command post        223 day-s/date-s        278 echelon             
     169 command-er-ed-ing-s 224 deadline-d-ing      279 ed                  
     170 commence-d-ment     225 death               280 effect-ed-ing       
     171 commit-ment         226 deception           281 effect-ive-s        
     172 commit-ted-ing      227 decontaminate-d-ion 282 element-s           
     173 communicate-d-ions-s228 decrease-d-ing      283 elevate-d-ion       
     174 company             229 DEFCON              284 embank-s-ed         
     175 complete-d-ing      230 defend-ed-g-s       285 embank-ment         
     176 complete-ion        231 defense-sive        286 emergency           
     177 compound            232 degree-s            287 embrace-d-ing       
     178 compromise-d-ing    233 delay-ed-ing-s      288 emplace-ment        
     179 concentrate-d-ing   234 delete-d-ion        289 employ-ed-ing       
     180 concentrate-s-ion   235 delete/omit         290 en                  
     181 concertina          236 deliver-ed-ing      291 encounter-d-ing     
     182 concur              237 demolition          292 encrypt-ed-tion     
     183 condition-d-ing     238 demonstrate-d-ing   293 en-ed-ing           
     184 conduct-ed-ing      239 demonstrate-d-s-ion 294 enemy               
     185 confidential        240 deny-ied-ies        295 engineer-d-ing-s    
     186 connect-ed-ing      241 depart-d-g-ure      296 enlist-ed-ing       
     187 connect-ion         242 deploy-ed-ing       297 enroute             
     188 conserve-d          243 deploy-ment-s       298 entrench-ed         
     189 conservation        244 depot(supply)       299 entrench-ment       
     190 consolidate-d       245 deputy-ies          300 envelop-ed-ing      
     191 consolidate-ng      246 designate-d         301 equip-ing-s         
     192 consolidation       247 designate-ion       302 er                  
     193 contact-ed-s        248 desk                303 error               
     194 contact-ing         249 destination         304 es                  
     195 contaminate-d       250 destroy-d-ing-s     305 escape-d-ing        
     196 contaminate-ion-ing 251 detach-ed-es        306 establish-d-ng      
     197 continue-ation      252 detach-ment-s       307 estab-ed contact at(
     198 continue-d-ing      253 determine           308 estimate-d-ing      
     199 control-d-ing-s     254 diesel              309 estimate-ion        
     200 conversation        255 dig/dug (in)        310 et                  
     201 convoy-s            256 direct-d-on-ng      311 eta your loc        
     202 coord-s-d-ing       257 disable-d-ing       312 etd                 
     203 corps               258 disapprove-d-al     313 evac-d-ing-ion      
     204 correct (me)        259 disperse-d-g-l      314 execute-d-ing       
     205 correct-ed-ing      260 displace-d-ing      315 execute-ion-s       
     206 counterattack-ed-s  261 displace-ment       316 exhaust-ed-ing      
     207 counterattack-ing   262 dispose-d-al        317 expect-ed-ing       
     208 counterpart         263 disregard-d-ing     318 expect-ation-s      
     209 cover-ed-ing        264 distance-s          319 expedite-d-ing      
     210 craft               265 district-s          320 explode-d-s         
     211 crane               266 ditch               321 exploit-ed-ing      
     212 critical-ly         267 divert-ed-ion       322 explosive-s         
     213 cross-ed-ing        268 divide              323 expose-d-ing        
     214 crossroad-s         269 division-s          324 extend-d-g-ive      
     215 crushed             270 down-ed             325 extend-sion         
     216 culvert             271 downed acft         326 extend-extent       
     217 cut-off             272 drop-ping-ped       327 extract-s-d-ing     
     218 d                   273 due my              328 f                   
     219 dagger              274 dump-ed-ing         329 fac                 


         Sample Opcode Table             Page   3
     
     
     330 facility            385 go-ing(to)          440 inadequate          
     331 fail-ed-ing         386 good                441 incendiary-ies      
     332 fallout             387 grade-d-r-ing       442 inch-es             
     333 family              388 green               443 incident-al-s       
     334 fatal               389 grenade-s           444 increase-d-g-s      
     335 favor-s-ed          390 grid(coord)         445 indigenous          
     336 favor-able-ing      391 ground-s-ed         446 indirect            
     337 feet/foot           392 group               447 individual          
     338 female              393 guard-ed-ing-s      448 infantry            
     339 ferry-ies-ied-ing   394 guerrilla-s         449 infiltrate-d-r-s    
     340 field-s             395 guide-d-s-ing       450 infiltrate-g-on     
     341 fight-er-ing        396 guide-ance          451 inflict             
     342 final               397 gun-s               452 inform-d-ation      
     343 fire-d-ing-s        398 h                   453 ing                 
     344 fixed wing          399 had                 454 initial-ed-ly       
     345 flame-d-ing-s       400 halt-ed             455 insert-s-ed-ing     
     346 flame thrower       401 hand                456 install-d-ation     
     347 flank-ed-ing-s      402 harass-ed-ing       457 instrumental        
     348 flare-d-s           403 harass-ment         458 intact              
     349 flash               404 have/has            459 intend-ed-tion      
     350 flash range-ing     405 head-ed-ing         460 intercept-d-or      
     351 fled                406 headquarters        461 intercept-ion-s     
     352 flesh               407 heavy               462 interfere-d-ing     
     353 flexible-ity        408 hgt of burst        463 interfere-nce       
     354 flight              409 heli lift           464 internal            
     355 follow-ed-ing       410 heli pad            465 interrogate-d       
     356 for                 411 helicopter-s        466 interrogate-ion     
     357 force-s-d-ing       412 here                467 intersection        
     358 ford-able           413 high-er-est         468 interval            
     359 fog                 414 highway-s           469 isolate-d-ing       
     360 forearm             415 hill/mt/rise-s      470 issue-d-ing-s       
     361 forest-s            416 hit-ting            471 item-s              
     362 fortify-ied         417 hold-er-ing         472 j                   
     363 fortify-ication     418 hospital-s          473 jam-med-ing         
     364 forward-ed-ing      419 hostile             474 jeep                
     365 found               420 hour-s-ly           475 jet-s               
     366 foxhole             421 how                 476 join-ed-ing         
     367 fracture            422 howitzer-s          477 joint               
     368 frag order          423 i                   478 jump-ed-g(off)      
     369 frequency-ies       424 identify-ed         479 junction-s(road)    
     370 friend-ly           425 identification      480 k                   
     371 from                426 ied                 481 keep-s-ing          
     372 front-age-ally      427 ies                 482 killed in act       
     373 fuel                428 if                  483 kilometer-s         
     374 fuse-d              429 illuminate-d-ion    484 know-n-ing          
     375 future              430 illuminate-ing      485 l                   
     376 g                   431 immediately         486 labor-ed-ing        
     377 gallon-s            432 imminent            487 lacerate            
     378 gas-ing-ed          433 immobile-ize-d-ing  488 land-ed-ing         
     379 gasoline            434 impact              489 large               
     380 gate                435 impassable          490 last                
     381 general-ize         436 impossible          491 lateral             
     382 generator(set)      437 improve-d-ing       492 launch-d-r-ing      
     383 get-ting            438 improve-ment        493 lay/laid            
     384 give-n-ing          439 in                  494 lead-er-ing         

     
         Sample Opcode Table             Page   4
     
     
     495 leaflet-s           550 messenger           605 occupy-ation        
     496 leave/left          551 meter-s             606 occupy-ed-ing       
     497 left(of)            552 mile-s              607 odor                
     498 leg                 553 mine-d(field)       608 of                  
     499 level               554 minimum             609 offense-ive         
     500 liaison(off)        555 minim-ize-d         610 officer-s           
     501 life                556 minor               611 oil                 
     502 light-er-ng-d-s     557 minute-s            612 on                  
     503 limit-ed-ing-s      558 miss-ed-ing         613 open-ed-ing         
     504 line-d-s(of)        559 missile-s           614 operate-ion-s       
     505 listen-ed-ing       560 missing in act      615 operate-s-al        
     506 litter-s            561 mission-s           616 opportunity-s       
     507 litter evac needed a562 mobile-ity          617 or                  
     508 load-s-ed           563 moon                618 orange              
     509 local-ize-d         564 morale              619 order-ed-ing-s      
     510 locate-d-ing-s      565 morning             620 ordnance            
     511 locate-ion(of)      566 more/most           621 organize-ation      
     512 logistic-al-s       567 mortar-s            622 organize-d          
     513 look(for)           568 motor-ized          623 orient-g-ation      
     514 loss-es-lost        569 mountain-ous        624 origin-al-ate       
     515 loudspeaker         570 mount-ed-ing        625 other               
     516 low-er-est          571 move-d-ing          626 our                 
     517 ly                  572 move-ment           627 out(of)             
     518 m                   573 multiple            628 outpost             
     519 m14                 574 my                  629 over-age            
     520 m16                 575 my location is      630 overlay             
     521 m60                 576 n                   631 over-run            
     522 machinegun-s        577 napalm              632 p                   
     523 magnetic            578 narrow              633 panel-s             
     524 main                579 navel gunfire       634 paratroop-s         
     525 main body           580 nco                 635 part-s              
     526 main supply rt      581 near                636 party-ies           
     527 maintain-ing-s      582 need-ed-ing         637 pass-es-ed          
     528 maintain-ed         583 net-ted-ting        638 pass-able           
     529 maintenance         584 neutral-ize         639 pass-age-ing        
     530 make-g/made         585 neutralize-d-ng     640 password            
     531 male                586 new                 641 past                
     532 maneuver-ng-s       587 night-s             642 patrol-ed-ing-s     
     533 man-ned-ning        588 no/non/neg          643 penetrate-d-ing     
     534 many                589 no fire line        644 penetrate-ion       
     535 map-ped-ping-s      590 none                645 percent-age         
     536 match-d-s-ing       591 north-ern(of)       646 perimeter           
     537 market              592 not                 647 period              
     538 max(range)          593 not later than      648 permission          
     539 means               594 nothing             649 permit-ed-ing       
     540 measure-d           595 notify-ied-ies      650 personnel           
     541 measure-ment        596 now                 651 phase               
     542 mechanic-al         597 nuclear             652 phase line          
     543 mechanized-d        598 numbers             653 photograph-ed-er-ing
     544 medivac needed      599 o                   654 pick up             
     545 medical             600 objective-s         655 piece-d-ing-s       
     546 medium              601 observe-d-r         656 pipe line           
     547 meet-ing            602 observe-s-ing       657 place-d-ing         
     548 meet (me)(at)       603 observation(post)   658 plan-s-ed-ing       
     549 message-s           604 obstacle-s          659 platoon-s           

     
         Sample Opcode Table             Page   5
     
     
     660 point-s-ed-ing      715 reference-d-s       770 section-s           
     661 pol                 716 reference (to)      771 sector-s            
     662 platoons            717 regiment-s          772 secure-d-ing        
     663 port(harbor)        718 registration pt     773 secure-ity-s        
     664 position-s-ed       719 regroup-ed-ng       774 sieze-d-ing         
     665 possible            720 reinf-ed-s-ing      775 sieze-ure-s         
     666 post-s              721 reinf-ment-s        776 self propelled      
     667 pospone-d-s         722 relay-ed-ing        777 send-ing/sent       
     668 pospone-ing         723 release-d-ing-s     778 separate-d-ion      
     669 pound-s             724 relief/relieve      779 sequence            
     670 prepare-d-ing-s     725 remain-ing          780 serial              
     671 preparation         726 rendezvous          781 service-d-able      
     672 prevent             727 reorganize-d-ation-s782 shell-s-ing-ed      
     673 priest              728 repair-ed-ing       783 shoot-ing/shot      
     674 primary             729 repeat-ed-ing       784 short-ed            
     675 priority            730 repel-ed-ing-s      785 shoulder            
     676 prize-s of war      731 replace-d-ing       786 sight-ed-ing        
     677 probable            732 replace-ment        787 sign-ed-ing         
     678 procees-ed-ing      733 report-ed-ing       788 signal-ed-ing       
     679 progress-ed-ing     734 report-s(to)        789 silent-ly-ce        
     680 protect-d-s-ing     735 repulse-d-ing       790 simulate-d-ing      
     681 protect-ed-ion      736 request-d-g-s       791 site-s              
     682 protect-ive         737 req air strike      792 sit/sitrep          
     683 provide-d-ing       738 require-d-ing       793 slope-s-ing-d       
     684 provide-sion        739 require-ment        794 slow-ed-ing         
     685 province            740 rescue              795 small-er-est        
     686 prov st ad          741 reserve-d-g-s       796 smoke-d-ing-s       
     687 psywar              742 resist-ed-ance      797 soldier             
     688 pursue-d-ing-t      743 resist-ing          798 soon-er-est         
     689 q                   744 restore-s-d         799 sortie-s            
     690 quartermaster       745 restoration         800 south-ern(of)       
     691 question-ed         746 restrict-ion        801 speak               
     692 query-ied           747 restrict-ive        802 spearhead           
     693 r                   748 resupply-d-s-g      803 sporatic            
     694 rad(rad/hr)         749 result-s-ed-ng      804 spot-ted(rept)      
     695 radar               750 return-ed-ing       805 squad-s             
     696 radiation           751 returnee-s          806 squadron            
     697 radio-s             752 ridge-d-s           807 stand-ing(by)       
     698 radiological        753 rifle-s             808 start-ed-ing        
     699 raid-er-ing-s       754 right(of)           809 station-ed-s        
     700 railhead            755 riot-s-ed           810 status(report)      
     701 railroad-s          756 river-stream-s      811 stay-ed-ing         
     702 range               757 road-s              812 stop-ped-ing        
     703 rate                758 rocket-s            813 strafe-d-ing        
     704 ration-s-ed         759 round-s             814 street              
     705 reach-ed-s-ing      760 route-s-d-ing       815 strength-en         
     706 ready               761 ruin-s-ed           816 strike/struck       
     707 rear                762 s                   817 strong-er-est       
     708 receive-r-d-ng      763 safe-r-ty           818 submit-ed-ing       
     709 recognize-d-ing     764 schedule-d-ing-s    819 subordinate-s       
     710 recoilless rifl     765 scout-ed-ing-s      820 successful          
     711 recon               766 screen-d-ing-s      821 sunrise             
     712 recover-ed-y        767 search-d-ng-s       822 sunset              
     713 red                 768 second-s-ary        823 superior-ity        
     714 reduce-g-tion       769 secret              824 supplement-ed-ary   

     
         Sample Opcode Table             Page   6
     
     
     825 supply-d-s-g        880 transport-ed        935 WIA                 
     826 support-s-d-ing     881 transport-g-s       936 will                
     827 surface-d-ing       882 transportation      937 wind                
     828 surgery             883 trapped             938 wire-s-d-ing        
     829 surround-ed-ing     884 troop-s(lift)       939 with                
     830 survey-ed-s         885 truck-ed-s-ing      940 withdraw-ing-s      
     831 survey-lance        886 turn-ed-ing         941 wood-s-ed           
     832 suspect-d-ing       887 u                   942 work-s-ed-ing       
     833 swallow             888 unable              943 wound-ed-s          
     834 switch-ed-ing       889 unauthorized        944 wreck-ed-ed-s       
     835 swollen             890 under/undercover    945 wrist               
     836 t                   891 understand          946 wrong               
     837 tactic-s-al         892 understood          947 x                   
     838 tac opns cen        893 unidentified        948 y                   
     839 take-ing/took       894 unit-ed-s-ing       949 yard-s              
     840 talk                895 until(further notice950 yellow              
     841 tank-er-s           896 unusual             951 yes                 
     842 tank destroyer-s    897 unarmed             952 yesterday           
     843 target-s            898 unharmed            953 you-r               
     844 task(force)         899 up                  954 z                   
     845 taxi                900 us                  955 zone-s-ing(of)      
     846 team-s-ed           901 use-d-g(alt rt)     956                     
     847 ted                 902 v                                        
     848 telephone-s         903 vehicle-s                               
     849 temple              904 verify-ied                               
     850 tentetive           905 verification                             
     851 terminate-d-g       906 vertical                                 
     852 terrain             907 very                                     
     853 territory           908 vicinity(of)                             
     854 terrorists          909 violate-s-d                              
     855 there               910 violet                                   
     856 these               911 visible-ity                              
     857 this                912 vulnerable                               
     858 through             913 w                                        
     859 tide                914 wagon                                    
     860 time-d-ing          915 wait-ed-ing                              
     861 tion                916 war                                      
     862 to(be)              917 warehouse                                
     863 today               918 warhead-s                                
     864 tomorrow            919 was/were                                 
     865 ton-s-age           920 water                                    
     866 tonight             921 we/us                                    
     867 top secret          922 weak-en-ness                             
     868 total               923 weapon-s                                 
     869 tow-ed-ing          924 weather                                  
     870 TOW                 925 week-s                                   
     871 toward              926 west-ern(of)                             
     872 town/village-s      927 what                                     
     873 trace-r             928 wheel-ed                                 
     874 trak-ed-ing         929 when                                     
     875 traffic             930 where                                    
     876 trail-er-d-ing-s    931 which                                    
     877 train-ed-ing-s      932 white                                    
     878 transmit-ed         933 white phosphorus                         
     879 transmission        934 who                                      

    The preceding table is a sample of an Single (Numerical) Opcode table 
generated by the action of table.exe on a list of opcodes (table.txt).
    Where facilities are available to print and distribute larger documents, 
separate encode (Text to Code) and decode (Code to Text) tables can be 
produced using opcode.exe.

